# Bible-Text-Analysis

Hello. As a cradle Catholic who went to Catholic school his entire education, the Bible has played a big role in my life. I think I actually once tried to read the whole thing back to front in middle school, but I stopped around 1 Kings and decided to read Harry Potter instead; considering the Bible's length and depth, I don't think I can really blame myself for that one. That being said, the Bible has been a source of great intriugue and inspiration for me throughout my life, and I've definitely dedicated plenty of time to trying to understand what it's saying and how I can apply that to my own life. 

After studying it in a religious and philosophical context for a long time, I decided I wanted to try to study in an analytical context and try to dust off my text analytics skills from school. I put together a PowerPoint with more detail, but in summary, I downloaded a dataset from Kaggle with the World English Bible text and tried to apply techniques like LDA, sentiment analysis, word clouds, and n-grams to try to identify similarities and differences across books and sections of the Bible. To be honest, I didn't find much; I think this is largely due to the fact that the Bible is written and translated to be easy to read and consistent in its syntax and grammatical patterns. Additionally, the common overarching themes are so similar across books and sections. When you have a bunch of documents written about the same thing in the same way, it's going to be tough to find differences. That being said, I got to refresh my text analytics toolbox and explore different libraries in Python, so I consider it a win. 
